cloud: Add secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md (#10909)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/connect-securely-to-serverless-clusters.md

---
title: Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless.
---

# Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters

This document introduces the core information about TLS in TiDB Serverless Tier.

## Can I disable TLS in Serverless?

No.

Serverless clusters allow only TLS connections and reject normal connections. The reason for this is that users connect to Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.

## What TLS versions can I use?

TiDB Serverless only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3. 

> You can specify the version in the connection strings. For example, If you use MySQL Client to connect TiDB Serverless, you can set `--tls-version=TLSv1.3` to enforce the TLS 1.3 version.

Reviewer: 这里不提 default 选项了吗？

Author: 不提了，那个应该不算 default， 是 minTLSversion

> You can specify the version in the connection strings. For example, If you use MySQL Client to connect TiDB Serverless, you can set `--tls-version=TLSv1.3` to enforce the TLS 1.3 version.

Reviewer 2: 感觉这句还是多余了，不如推荐 "Hostname verification (SNI)" https://mariadb.com/kb/en/nodejs-connection-options/#hostname-verification-sni

## What certificates do I need？

> TiDB Serverless uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless. Usually, Let's Encrypt's root certificate is present in your system's root CA stores. If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless without specifying the path of CA roots.

Reviewer 2: 1. Serverless Clusters
2. uses certificates signed by ISRG Root X1

> However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure ca root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect TiDB Serverless in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect TiDB Serverless in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.
```

> However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure ca root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect TiDB Serverless in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you need to configure path to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use mysqlclient to connect TiDB Serverless in Python on macOS, you need to set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in the `ssl` argument.
```

> > **Note**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
```

> 

> > TiDB Serverless does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change. 

Reviewer 2: 我觉得这里表达的意思是我们不提供 CA 证书下载，如果你需要的话可以直接去 Let's Encrypt 官网下载。但我们推荐你使用 Mozilla CA bundle，而不是单一的 LE 证书。因为我们不保证我们不会切换 CA 证书。

> 

> > TiDB Serverless promises to always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided on all common systems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> TiDB Serverless promises to always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 
```

## How do I connect to TiDB Serverless in TLS connection?

TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier.

Generally, enable TLS and offer a CA root path to authenticate the server. This helps you prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.

> The following examples show the connection string in MySQL Client, MyCLI client, Java, Python, Go, and Node.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show the connection string in MySQL Client, MyCLI client, Java, Python, Go, and Node.js:
```

<SimpleTab>

> <div label="MySQL Client">

Reviewer 2: I recommend put connect string first and then explain.

> MySQL Client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. Besides, we should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca` when connecting to TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MySQL Client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Serverless, you must set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.
```

> - With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL Client forces to enable TLS, and validate TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL Client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless.
```

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path in your system.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path> -D test -p
```

</div>

<div label="MyCLI Client">

> [MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) enables TLS automatically with `ssl` flag. We set `ssl-ca` to enable TLS and validate TiDB serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) enables TLS automatically with `ssl` flag. You can set `ssl-ca` to enable TLS and validate TiDB serverless.
```

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path in your system.

```shell
mycli -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>
```

</div>

<div label="Java">

> We recommend using [MySQL Connector/J 8.0](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/) or up than, to connect with TiDB Serverless in Java. Set `sslMode` in connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless. JDBC trust system CA root certificates by default, so we don't need to configure certificates anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using [MySQL Connector/J 8.0](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/) or later versions to connect to TiDB Serverless in Java.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- Set `sslMode` in connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless. JDBC trusts system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
```

> - With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, JDBC forces to enable TLS, and validate TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, JDBC forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless.
```

```
jdbc:mysql://<host>:4000/test?user=<username>&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY
```

</div>

<div label="Python">

> We recommend using [mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/) to connect with TiDB Serverless in Python. Set `ssl.ca` in connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless.
> 
> - Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path in your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using [mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/) to connect to TiDB Serverless in Python. 

- Set `ssl.ca` in the connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless.
- Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path in your system.
```

```
host="<host>", user="<username>", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}
```

</div>

<div label="Go">

> We recommend using the [Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql) to connect with TiDB Serverless in Go. Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless. Go use system CA root certificates by default, so we don't need to configure certificates anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using the [Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql) to connect to TiDB Serverless in Go.
```

> - Register `tidb` TLS configuration. Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Serverless hostname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless. Go uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
- Register `tidb` TLS configuration. Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Serverless hostname.
```

- If you don't want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in connection string.

```
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
  MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
  ServerName: "<host>",
})

db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "<usename>:<your_password>@tcp(<host>:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

We recommend using [mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) to connect with TiDB Serverless in Node.js. Set `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` in connection to validate TiDB Serverless. Node.js use system CA root certificates by default, so we don't need to configure certificates anymore.

> - Set `ssl: {"rejectUnauthorized": true}` to validate TiDB Serverless hostname.

Reviewer: 这两段里 Set `ssl.rejectUnauthorized` 是不是有点重复了

Author: 已经删除第一段里的相关描述。

```
host: '<host>', port: 4000,user: '<username>', password: '<your_password>', database: 'test', ssl: {"rejectUnauthorized": true}
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Where is the CA root path in my system?

The following lists the CA root paths in common platforms.

**MacOS**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**Debian / Ubuntu / Arch**
```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```

**RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia / Vercel / Netlify**

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
```

**Alpine**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**OpenSUSE**

```
/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
```

## Can TiDB Serverless verify the client's identity?

No.

> Now, TiDB Serverless uses one-way TLS authentication, which means only client uses the public certificate pair to validate the server while server does not validate the client. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you cannot configure `--ssl-cert` and `--ssl-key` in connection strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, TiDB Serverless uses one-way TLS authentication, which means only the client uses the public certificate pair to validate the server while the server does not validate the client. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you cannot configure `--ssl-cert` or `--ssl-key` in connection strings.
```

---

> title: Connect Securely to Serverless Clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters
```
Global comment: The official name is "Serverless Tier". Please update other uses in this PR.

summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless.
---

> # Connect Securely to Serverless Clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters
```

> This document introduces the core information about TLS in TiDB Serverless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document introduces the core information about TLS in TiDB Serverless Tier.
```

## How do I connect to TiDB Serverless in TLS connection?

> TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier.
```

> Generally, you should enable TLS and offer a CA root path to authenticate the server, that will help you prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Please, according to your actual use of the client, do accordingly with two criteria, enable TLS and verify the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, enable TLS and offer a CA root path to authenticate the server. This helps you prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.
```

## Can I disable TLS in Serverless?

No.

> Serverless clusters should only allow TLS connections and reject normal connections. The vital cause is users connecting serverless clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless clusters allows only TLS connections and rejects normal connections. The reason for this is that users connect to Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.
```

## What TLS versions can I use?

> TiDB Serverless only supports TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.3. TiDB Serverless uses TLSv1.2 as the default, and you can specify the TLS version in connection strings. For example, If you use MySQL Client to connect TiDB Serverless, you can set `--tls-version=TLSv1.3` to enforce the TLSv1.3 version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless only supports TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.3. 

TiDB Serverless uses TLSv1.2 as the default version. If you want another TLS version, you can specify the version in the connection strings. For example, If you use MySQL Client to connect TiDB Serverless, you can set `--tls-version=TLSv1.3` to enforce the TLSv1.3 version.
```

> TiDB Serverless does not allow you to manually use TLSv1.0 or TLSv1.2.

Reviewer: 这里是不允许手动选择 v1.0 和 v1.1？ v1.2 是写错了吗？

Author: 是的，感谢指正

> TiDB Serverless does not allow you to manually use TLSv1.0 or TLSv1.2.

Author: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless does not allow you to manually use TLSv1.0 or TLSv1.1.
```

## What certificates do I need？

> TiDB Serverless uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless gateway. Usually, Let's Encrypt's root certificate is present in your system's root CA stores. You can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless without specifying the path of CA roots, such as JAVA, Go, etc.

Reviewer: “such as JAVA, Go, etc.” 这里是什么意思呢

Author: 应该是在 JAVA 和 GO 语言中不需要指定 CA root 路径。

Reviewer: 麻烦看下这样是否正确？

```suggestion
TiDB Serverless uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless gateway. Usually, Let's Encrypt's root certificate is present in your system's root CA stores. If the programming language you use can read the system's root CA stores, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless without specifying the path of CA roots.
```

> However, some drivers and ORMs do not use system root CA stores. So you should make sure to add Let's Encrypt's root Certificate Authority( [ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt) ) to your drivers' or ORMs' certificate store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. So you should make sure to add Let's Encrypt's root Certificate Authority ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) to your drivers' or ORMs' certificate store.
```

## Where is the CA root path in my system?

> Here gives some CA root paths in the different platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following lists the CA root paths in common platforms.
```

**MacOS**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**Debian / Ubuntu / Arch**
```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```

**RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia / Vercel / Netlify**

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
```

**Alpine**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**OpenSUSE**

```
/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
```

## Can TiDB Serverless verify the client's identity?

No.

> Now, TiDB Serverless uses one-sided TLS authentication, which means the server uses the public certificate pair to verify identity while the client can not. The client uses a username and password to authenticate itself. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you should not config `--ssl-cert` and `--ssl-key` in connection strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, TiDB Serverless uses one-sided TLS authentication, which means the server uses the public certificate pair to verify identity while the client can not. The client uses a username and password to authenticate itself. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you cannot configure `--ssl-cert` and `--ssl-key` in connection strings.
```

---
title: Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless.
---

> # Connect Securely to Serverless Tier Clusters

Reviewer: 文档标题改为 FAQ 可能更贴切？

```suggestion
# Serverless Tier Security FAQ
```

Reviewer 2: 我觉得可以，但不如叫 "Secure connections to Serverless Tier"。

Author: 第一版的 “Transport Layer Security (TLS) in TiDB Serverless” 和 "Secure connections to Serverless Tier" 是不是差不多？👀

This document introduces the core information about TLS in TiDB Serverless Tier.

## How do I connect to TiDB Serverless in TLS connection?

TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier.

Generally, enable TLS and offer a CA root path to authenticate the server. This helps you prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.

## Can I disable TLS in Serverless?

No.

> Serverless clusters allows only TLS connections and rejects normal connections. The reason for this is that users connect to Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Serverless clusters enforce TLS connections and reject non-TLS connections. The reason for this is that users connect to Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.
```

## What TLS versions can I use?

TiDB Serverless only supports TLSv1.2 and TLSv1.3. 

TiDB Serverless uses TLSv1.2 as the default version. If you want another TLS version, you can specify the version in the connection strings. For example, If you use MySQL Client to connect TiDB Serverless, you can set `--tls-version=TLSv1.3` to enforce the TLSv1.3 version.

> TiDB Serverless does not allow you to manually use TLSv1.0 or TLSv1.1.

Reviewer: 这里改成这样吧，把其他不支持的版本也包进去
```suggestion
TiDB Serverless does not allow you to manually use other unsupported TLS versions.
```

## What certificates do I need？

> TiDB Serverless uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless gateway. Usually, Let's Encrypt's root certificate is present in your system's root CA stores. If the programming language you use can read the system's root CA stores, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless without specifying the path of CA roots.

Reviewer 2: Don't mention gateway. Don't give implementation details to users since it might change.
